To implement authentication, we first of all need a fitting route.
So in the auth.js route route here, I will add a new route, a post route where I will log the user in, so
it will be /login.
We could add validation here but I don't really care about this because I will check the email password
pair anyways, so we can also directly go forward to our controller action.
So let's implement that, let's work on the controller action now and for that in the auth file in the controllers
folder,
I'll add a new action which I'll name login which of course is a function with request response next
and then some logic and in here as before, I'll retrieve my e-mail, whoops, from request body e-mail, I'll
retrieve the password from request body password and I now first of all want to find out whether that
e-mail address exists because if it does not, then we already know that we can't login.
So I'll use my user model and find one to find one user where the e-mail equals the extracted e-mail
I got here.
We can succeed or we can fail with that, if we fail we'll use that same handler we used before
so we'll throw an error because here failing of course means that we simply had some network error
or some error with the database.
If we make it into the then block, we had a user object but that does not mean that we found a user, it
could be undefined if no user was found,
we basically always end up in the then block if no error is thrown.
So here I'll check if user is not defined and if it is not defined, I'll create a new error object where
I add or where I add a message of a user with this e-mail could not be found, anything you want,
where I'll set a
status code of and now you could choose different codes, you could go for 404 because no user was
found or 401 for not authenticated and then I'll throw that error.
If we make it past this if check, we know that we have that e-mail address,
now we need to validate the password. For this, I'll quickly create a new variable, loaded user and I'll store
my user in that variable so that I can use it in other functions later too. Now I'll use bcrypt again and
there I'll use the compare method to compare the password the user entered with the password I got stored,
so with that hashed password, so user.password is password I'm looking for. I'll return this because
this will give me a promise and hence I can add another then block here.
Here I get back
true or false depending on whether this is equal or not
and if it is not equal, of course then the user did enter a wrong password.
So here I'll create another error, wrong password maybe
and I'll add a status code
of 401 again and throw that error
but if we make it past the if check, then we know the password is equal to the password the user entered.
So the user entered a correct password and now we need to generate such a json web token.
Let's do that next.